How to access the NAIIS application
Open any internet browser (i.e. Internet Explorer, Firefox, etc.) and type in the following URL http://unfccc.int/7627 on
the browser’s address bar. 
NAIIS-User-Manual.Docx Page 7 10/02/2013
Press the ‘Enter key’ and the non-Annex I Greenhouse Gas Inventories web page appears.
To access the NAIIS application, click on the image NAIIS Web Application, the right hand side of the screen. (figure
3, number 1) and the log-in page will be displayed. (figure 4) 
To log-in, enter the username and password and click on the “Sign in” button. 
Start	a	GHG	inventory	
In order to START a GHG inventory, please follow the steps below:
 Log in as PM.
 Hover the cursor on the “Submission Management” and click on the “View Inventories Progress” button.
 Click/select the appropriate GHG Inventory in Status = “created” (see figure 7a).
 Click on “Work on Inventories” under Submission Management (see figure 7b). 
 Left click to select the appropriate Inventory (figure 8a)
 Press the “Start Inventory” button (figure 8b)
Once the “Start Inventory” button is pressed, the status of the selected Inventory change to “started”. (see Figure 9) 
Add a new GHG inventory year or edit general properties/sectors (only NFP and
PM’s)
 Log in as NFP or PM.
 Click on “Work on Inventories” under Submission Management (figure 10).
Figure 10: Sub menu “Work on Inventories”
Once “Work on Inventories” has been clicked, the initial screen will be displayed, which shows the following boxes
(figure 11):
a. Existing Inventory (with all options)
b. General properties – include the name, submission year, creator, creation date, status, updater and submission
date
c. Sectors
d. Inventory years
Figure 11. Initial screen of “Work on Inventories”
Follow the steps to add/remove an inventory year:
 Click on the inventory year (figure 12a)
 Select the inventory year under General properties (figure 12b)
 Select or deselect the appropriate Sectors (figure 12c)
 To add or remove an inventory year, select or deselect the relevant year under Inventory Years box (figure 12d)
Add User
Note: This function is ONLY available for NFP’s and PM’s!
 Log in as NFP or PM
 Hover the cursor on the “Users Management” tab and click on the “Users Administration” button. (see figure 18);
this opens the Users Administration screen (figure 19).
Figure 18. Users Administration
 Figure 19. Initial screen of Users Administration
 Click the “+” sign (figure 19a) creates a new user (figure 20 new User).
 Double click on the cell of the newly created user name and enter a new user name (must be unique and contain at
least 3 characters).
Once done, press the enter key and the new user name will be saved in the respective table of the NAIIS database.
Note: New user name(s) will be generated by the system as default [Non-Annex I Party name] + “newUser”
(e.g. UgandanewUser, PhilippinesnewUser, ArgentinanewUser)
Delete nodes – user defined nodes
Only user-added nodes can be deleted. To delete a node, right-click on the node and select “Delete child node”
(figure 26). When deleting user-defined nodes, each of the child nodes has to be deleted first before deleting the
parent node that was added. If a user accidentally deletes the parent node before deleting child nodes, an error
message is displayed, and the nodes will disappear from the tree. However, the nodes are not removed from the
database, therefore the user has to click on the “Reload grid” icon ( ) located at the bottom of the navigation tree.
After doing so, the child nodes will re-appear on the tree. It should be noted that any data entered in the grid
corresponding to the user-added nodes are also deleted from the database once the nodes are removed.